# Week Three journal

This week, I came to understand the decision-making process when doing research using primary sources. In my study of history so far, I have worked with one or two primary sources, but a majority of the reserch process for papers was done with secondary sources. Given this, I didn't realize how much 'soft history' goes into producing original publicatons, whether that is in digital history or other branches of history. I had to decide what data was worth saving and what could be deleted when cleaning data using regular expressions. I also had to make a lot of small decisions about the clusters I was merging when using OpenRefine. For the excercise this week, we only had to keep the information on the sender, the receiver, and the date that the letters were sent. I am more familiar with having the analze the content of the letters, rather than how the people writing the letters are connected to one another. I thought it was interesting how different kinds of history might interpret the same data differently. 

When I was reading James Baker's article on the use of soft history in his work, I realized how network visualization can be used as a tool to guide thinking. In a way, it reminded me of making mind-maps to come up with a thesis. On Discord, Dr. Graham said something about how digital history generalizes from the universal from the specific. This could be said about the physical labour of digital history (like people who do the work, managers, and management), but also the intellectual labour. A lot of the data that is being visualized is not seen in the final product. The work and thinking that goes into cleaning up dirty data doesn't get seen. I think that showing your work in digital history is more about showing the process of thinking rather than the conclusions that arise. This might be why most of the work is not seen. But, as Baker noted in his article, it is important to do this work because it could lead the researcher to see new connections that they didn't see before. The hard history that Baker discussed seemed more in line with what I think of traditional history, where the source can be used to make an interpretation about a subject. Baker's article drew emphasis on the patterns that are found in visualizations, but the real significance came from why the patterns exist. The data and visualizations on their own are not meaningful without an interpretation.
